nezago-roadmaps/javascript-roadmap.md, before:

# Javascript roadmap

## Introduction
Javascript is a broad language and to understand it completely you need a proper understanding of a few concepts and best practices, in this article, I will walk you through the path you need to follow in order to become a great javascript software developer who can do great things with it.

Javascript is the mostly used language on internet, it is a monopole language for making website user interfaces, it is the only language which doesn't have any other competitor for its domain. Here I can't hesitate to say that javascript is the native language for user interfaces.

The content of this article are my personal opinions, but I strongly believe that are accurate and reliable to help any new comer to softaware engineering field, who wants to get a real path to follow in order to become a professional software engineer.

## Why Javascript?
As I mentioned it above, javascript is the only one who is in control of the websites and web applications user interfaces, it doesn't do only that, but it does other great things such as mobile applications, server side, and desktop applications, you can even do virtual reality with javascript, you can do artificial intelligence with javascript, briefly javascript is everywhere.

## Path to javascript
The following is a list of resources to follow, for anyone who is starting javascript from scratch. It doesn't require any programming background.

### Fresh start
 *Note:* Go with this course just to catch up with basics terminologies and concepts of computer, to be able to stay on track when you will be learning programming.

 1. [Think like a computer: the logic of programming](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/5261196-think-like-a-computer-the-logic-of-programming)

 #### Course description
 Since computer programming is an act of instructing a computer, telling what it does and how it does it, you need to know first of all how it works, what is its internal architect, how does it think? [Here this course](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/5261196-think-like-a-computer-the-logic-of-programming) comes in as a solution. I strongly recommend anyone who wants to start the career of any programming language, to start by this course.

 It's a course from [Openclassrooms](https://openclassrooms.com/), it's free of price.

2. [Learn Programming With JavaScript](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/5664271-learn-programming-with-javascript)

### Course description
After completing the previous lesson, you should go with this lesson, which gives you all necessary basics of programming with javascript. It is from [openclassrooms](https://openclassrooms.com/) as well, and it is for free from any charges.

2. For readers

*Note:* If you prefer learning by reading, I recommend you to go with some courses from [theodinproject](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript?ref=lnav).

The following list is for those who prefer reading over video tutorial.

i. [Introduction to JavaScript from freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/)

ii. [Problem solving](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript/lessons/problem-solving-javascript)

iii. [Organizing your JavaScript Code](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript/lessons/introduction)

iv. [JavaScript in the Real World](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript/lessons/linting)

v. [Asynchronous JavaScript and APIs](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript/lessons/json) => Read all assignments links before clicking *next lesson*

vi. [Testing JavaScript](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript/lessons/testing-basics)

Commit message:

complete javascript for the UI

nezago-roadmaps/javascript-roadmap.md, after:

# Javascript roadmap

## Introduction
Javascript is a broad language and to understand it completely you need a proper understanding of a few concepts and best practices, in this article, I will walk you through the path you need to follow in order to become a great javascript software developer who can do great things with it.

Javascript is the mostly used language on internet, it is a monopole language for making website user interfaces, it is the only language which doesn't have any other competitor for its domain. Here I can't hesitate to say that javascript is the native language for user interfaces.

The content of this article are my personal opinions, but I strongly believe that are accurate and reliable to help any new comer to softaware engineering field, who wants to get a real path to follow in order to become a professional software engineer.

## Why Javascript?
As I mentioned it above, javascript is the only one who is in control of the websites and web applications user interfaces, it doesn't do only that, but it does other great things such as mobile applications, server side, and desktop applications, you can even do virtual reality with javascript, you can do artificial intelligence with javascript, briefly javascript is everywhere.

## Path to javascript
The following is a list of resources to follow, for anyone who is starting javascript from scratch. It doesn't require any programming background.

### Fresh start
 *Note:* Go with this course just to catch up with basics terminologies and concepts of computer, to be able to stay on track when you will be learning programming.

 1. [Think like a computer: the logic of programming](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/5261196-think-like-a-computer-the-logic-of-programming)

 #### Course description
 Since computer programming is an act of instructing a computer, telling what it does and how it does it, you need to know first of all how it works, what is its internal architect, how does it think? [Here this course](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/5261196-think-like-a-computer-the-logic-of-programming) comes in as a solution. I strongly recommend anyone who wants to start the career of any programming language, to start by this course.

 It's a course from [Openclassrooms](https://openclassrooms.com/), it's free of price. It only requires you to be commited for 15 hours to be able to complete it.

2. [Learn Programming With JavaScript](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/5664271-learn-programming-with-javascript)

### Course description
After completing the previous lesson, you should go with this lesson, which gives you all necessary basics of programming with javascript. It is from [openclassrooms](https://openclassrooms.com/) as well, and it is for free from any charges.

3. [Write JavaScript for the Web](https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/5493201-write-javascript-for-the-web)

### Course description
By completing this course, you will be able to write javascript for any website, this means that course will make you a frontend web developer, as I said before, javascript is the native language of the web technologies. This course is recommended for front-end developers, and full-stack developers.

2. For readers

*Note:* If you prefer learning by reading, I recommend you to go with some courses from [theodinproject](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript?ref=lnav).

The following list is for those who prefer reading over video tutorial.

i. [Introduction to JavaScript from freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/)

ii. [Problem solving](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript/lessons/problem-solving-javascript)

iii. [Organizing your JavaScript Code](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript/lessons/introduction)

iv. [JavaScript in the Real World](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript/lessons/linting)

v. [Asynchronous JavaScript and APIs](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript/lessons/json) => Read all assignments links before clicking *next lesson*

vi. [Testing JavaScript](https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/javascript/lessons/testing-basics)
